!version: $Revision: 1.1 $
!date:                 Fri Apr 04 17:22:57 CEST 2003
!saved-by: luisa
!autogenerated-by: DAG-Edit version 1.311
!
!Gene Ontology definitions
!
!Sample file for use by PSI MI format.
!
term: classical two hybrid
goid: PSI-MI:0076
definition: The classical yeast two-hybrid system is a method that uses transcriptional activity as a measure of protein-protein interaction. It relies on the modular nature of many site-specific transcriptional activators (GAL 4) , which consist of a DNA-binding domain and a transcriptional activation domain. The DNA-binding domain serves to target the activator to the specific genes that will be expressed, and the activation domain contacts other proteins of the transcriptional machinery to enable transcription to occur. The two-hybrid system is based on the observation that the two domains of the activator need to be non-covalently brought together by the interaction of any two proteins. The application of this system requires the expression of two hybrid proteins: a DNA-binding domain fused to a protein, X, and a transcription activation domain fused to a second protein, Y. These chimeric proteins are expressed in a cell containing one or more reporter genes under the control of a promoter that is activated by the transcription factor utilized in the assay. If the X and Y proteins do interact, they create a functional activator by bringing the activation domain into close proximity with the DNA-binding domain and as a consequence stimulate the expression reporter gene(s). While the assay has been developed and generally performed in yeast cells, it works similarly in mammalian cells and should be applicable to any other eukaryotic cells. This method has been used with a wide variety of proteins, including some that normally reside in the nucleus, cytoplasm, or mitochondria, are peripherally associated with membranes. It can be used to detect interactions between candidate proteins, whose genes are available, by constructing the appropriate hybrids and by testing for reporter gene activity. Most significantly, the two-hybrid system can be used to screen libraries in which the activation domain is fused to a collection of cDNA. This permits to identify proteins, among a large collection, that bind to a protein of interest. This procedure results in the immediate availability of the cloned gene for any newly identified protein. In addition, since multiple clones that encode overlapping regions of protein are often identified, the minimal domain for interaction may be readily apparent from the initial screen.
definition_reference: PMID:10967325

term: coimmunoprecipitation
goid: PSI-MI:0012
definition: In this approach an antibody, specific for any antigen of interest, is used to immmuno-precipitate the antigen itself from a cell lysate. The proteins that bind to the antigen in the extract are expected to copurify and are identified either by a second specific antibody in western analysis or by more direct identification of their amino acid sequence (Edman degradation, Mass Spectrometry). If a specific antibody is not available, the bait protein can be expressed as fusion to an epitope tag or a protein tag (such as GST) for which commercial antibodies are available. The use of antibodies specific to a modified residue within a protein can result in the separation of the modified protein from the unmodified counterpart.
definition_reference: PMID:7708014

