!version: $Revision: 1.1 $
!date:                 Fri Apr 04 17:22:07 CEST 2003
!saved-by: luisa
!autogenerated-by: DAG-Edit version 1.311
!
!Gene Ontology definitions
!
!Sample file for use by PSI MI format
!
term: peptide massfingerprinting
goid: PSI-MI:0081
definition: This approach leads to protein identification by matching  peptide masses, as measured by  mass spectrometry, to the ones calculated from in silico fragmentation of a protein sequence database. A peptide mixture from a tryptic digest is analyzed by MALDI-MS (Matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization mass spectrometry). The list of peptide masses obtained by MALDI MS is automatically compared to the calculated masses of the predicted peptide fragments for each entry in the database. High mass accuracy is very important in order to obtain a statistically significant and unambiguous match This method is best applied to completely sequenced genomes and well characterized proteomes. However, depending on the data quality, proteins that are highly homologous to already characterized proteins (greater 80 to 90% sequence identity) can also be identified. The retrieved sequence are evaluated by mass accuracy of the peptides, matching of additional peptide masses in the MALDI spectrum after accounting for common modifications such as oxidation, acrylamidation of cysteine and missed cleavages and the use of secondary information (apparent isoelectric point and molecular weight). If any ambiguity about the identification by MALDI-MS still exists, the results must verified by an other identification method. Peptide mass fingerprint is generally carried out with a MALDI-TOF (Matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time-of-flight ) instrument but can also be achieved ESI-TOF (Electrospray Ionisation time-of-flight) or LC-MS (Liquid Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry) mass spectrometer.
definition_reference: PMID:10967324
definition_reference: PMID:11752590
definition_reference: PMID for application instance:11805826

term: sequence tag identification
goid: PSI-MI:0082
definition: This approach leads to protein identification by combining mass measurement and short amino acid sequence information obtained by tandem mass spectrometry.  This information is then used to automatically find the best match in a sequence database. A mixture of peptides derived from a protease digestion is analyzed by nanoelectrospray  LC-MS/MS  (Liquid Chromatography Tandem Mass Spectrometer or nanoESI MS/MS)  mass spectrometry. Electrospray mass spectrometry cannot be applied to dilute samples and is affected by high salt. As a consequence peptides, normally extracted from acrylamide gels by in situ proteolysis, are desalted and concentrated on a microcolumn followed by elution into a capillary used for nanoelectrospray tandem mass spectrometry. A first mass spectrum (Normal mass spectrum or Q1 mass spectrum) gives information about the masses of all the peptides. Peptides observed in the normal mass spectrum are isolated in turn and dissociated into fragments by collision with gas molecules within the mass spectrometer.Some of the fragments obtained from a peptide constitute a nested set, differing by one amino acid, and the mass difference between them allows assignment of a partial sequence. The masses of the fragments define the position of the partial sequence in the peptide. Together with the cleavage specificity of the protease used to cleave the protein, and mass information such sequence tag provides much higher search specificity to match the a database entry. The procedure is repeated with several peptides from the digest, resulting in multiple identifications of the same protein or identification of several proteins from the peptide mixture. Unknown proteins can easily be identified by using the high specificity of the peptide sequence tag for searches in most sequence databases including EST or genome databases.
definition_reference: PMID:10967324
definition_reference: PMID:11752590
definition_reference: PMID for application instance:11805837

